<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="dita_community_internationalization_plugin">
  <title>DITA Community Internationalization Plugin</title>
  <body>
    <p>The DITA Community internationalization plug-in,
      <filepath>org.dita-community.i18n</filepath>, provides a set of features for doing
      locale-specific sorting, grouping, line breaking, word breaking, and rendered text length
      estimation.</p>
    <p>It has been designed to support the general tasks of index generation and glossary sorting in
      DITA documents but can be used in any XSLT or Java program.  It also supports doinglayout of
      text, for example, to do to copy fitting in HTML contexts where you know the size of the
      target space and you need to accurately determine word boundaries and line break
      opportunities.</p>
    <p>Word breaking is required to do correct sorting of Simplified Chinese (zh-CN) but is also
      useful for other tasks, such as inserting zero-width spaces to enable appropriate line
      breaking or determining the width of the first word of a string in order to calculate column
      widths or definition list term indents.</p>
    <p>Line breaking is useful for doing line wrapping in content, for example, to estimate the
      horizontal and vertical rendered extent of blocks of text in order to then do pagination or
      allocation of text to fixed-sized regions in XSL-FO or HTML output.<fn>This functionality is
        appropriate for relatively small amounts of content—a few paragraphs at most. For larger
        volumes of content it will be more effective to use FOP or Antenna House to render to an
        "area tree" document and then use the area tree, which fully represents the formatted
        result, to generate the final result, such as paginated HTML.</fn></p>
    <p>A key feature of this library is full support for grouping and sorting Simplified Chinese,
      which is particularly challenging and cannot be correctly done using the default Java or ICU
      collators. </p>
    <p>Simplified Chinese requires a dictionary and this plug-in provides an open-source
      dictionary-based solution for Simplified Chinese, based on the open-source CC-CEDICT
      dictionary. See <xref keyref="cc-cedict-project"/>.</p>
    <p>It provides the following services:</p>
    <ul id="ul_zh4_1px_nx">
      <li>
        <p>A customizable collator for use with XSLT. Includes support for dictionary-based
          Simplified Chinese grouping and sorting.</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>A general grouping service useful for grouping index terms, glossary entries, etc.</p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>Access to the ICU word and line breaking facilities in XSLT, useful for doing word
          breaking in languages like Thai and Chinese that require a dictionary or
          writing-system-specific rules.</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>Release 2.0.0 of the plug-in requires Saxon 9.8 and OT 3.3. OT 3.3 includes new features for
      dynamic registration of Saxon extension functions and collation URI resolvers that the i18n
      plug-in requires, removing the need for any additional Java configuration.</p>
    <p>Release 1.0.0 of the plug-in supports Open Toolkit version 1.8.5 and version 2.x later than
      about 2.1.1 through 2.5.4. It requires Saxon 9.1 (as shipped with the Open Toolkit through
      version 2.5.4).</p>
  </body>
</topic>
