<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="installation">
  <title>Installation</title>
  <body>
    <section id="section_kzm_cf1_xgb" platform="OT3.3">
      <title>Open Toolkit 3.3, Plugin 2.0.0</title>
      <p>Installation requires installing the plug-in as you would any other Open Toolkit plug-in.
        You can install the plug-in from the Open Toolkit plug-in
        repository:<codeblock>c:\dita-ot > bin\dita --install org.dita-community.i18n --force</codeblock></p>
      <p>No additional Java classpath or Java system property configuration is required.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="section_ctt_3f1_xgb" platform="OT2.5.4 OT1.8.5">
      <title>Open Toolkit 1.8.5 through 2.5.4</title>
      <p>Installation requires installing the plug-in as you would any other Open Toolkit plug-in.
        As long as the Open Toolkit's Java classpath is configured so that the i18n jar comes before
        the Saxon jar, everything should work correctly.</p>
      <p>However, depending on how the Open Toolkit is run, you may need to configure the Java JAXP
        transformer factory Java system property so that the Open Toolkit will use an instance of
        Saxon configured with the custom collator and Java extensions.</p>
      <p>The project also provides a pair of Docker container configurations that include the i18n
        plug-in and transformer factory configuration, making it easy to run the Open Toolkit with
        the correct configuration. You can use the dita-ot-i18n container directly if you don't need
        any additional plug-ins or you can use the dita-ot-i18n-base Dockerfile as the basis for
        your own Docker file that includes additional plug-ins or other configuration. See <xref
          keyref="dita-ot-docker"/> for details.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
