<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="untitled9">
  <title>Setting Up The Saxon Transformer Factory Configuration</title>
  <shortdesc>If the Open-Toolkit-managed Java class path is not used or is not configured correctly
    for some reason then you must set the Java
      <parmname>javax.xml.transform.TransformerFactory</parmname> system property to point to the
    i18n library's transformer factory. If you are using the Java library outside of the Open
    Toolkit, you will need to manage the Saxon configuration as described here.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <note>You should not need to do this when running the Open Toolkit normally via the command
      line.</note>
    <p>The value of the <parmname>javax.xml.transform.TransformerFactory</parmname> Java system
      property must be
        "<codeph>org.ditacommunity.i18n.saxon.DCI18nSaxonTransformerFactoryImpl91</codeph>" (plug-in
      version 1.0) or
        <codeph>org.ditacommunity.i18n.saxon.DCI18nSaxonTransformerFactoryImpl</codeph> (plug-in
      version 2.0). The DCI18nSaxonTransformerFactoryImpl91 class is in the
        <filepath>dita-community-i18n-saxon.jar</filepath> jar file in the i18n plugin's
        <filepath>lib/</filepath> directory. This jar is automatically included in the Open
      Toolkit's Java class path by the i18n Open Toolkit plugin.</p>
    <p>How you set this property depends on how you run the Open Toolkit (toolkit versions 1.8.5 and
      2.x only—OT 3.3 and later is automatically configured).</p>
    <p>If you are running the Open Toolkit from the command line or in a command environment, such
      as through a continuous integration server or through a CCMS, you can set an environment
      variable or you can set the <parmname>javax.xml.transform.TransformerFactory</parmname>
      property as part of the Ant command invocation. See <xref
        keyref="transformer-factory-setting-command-line"/>.</p>
    <p>If you are running the Open Toolkit from oXygenXML you need to modify transformation
      scenarios to use Saxon 9.1 rather than later versions and set the
        <parmname>javax.xml.transform.TransformerFactory</parmname> property. See <xref
        keyref="transformer-factory-setting-oxygen"/>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
