<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="using_the_i18n_collator_from_xslt">
 <title>Using the i18n Collator from XSLT</title>
 <conbody>
  <p>To use the i18n collator from XSLT you specify the custom collation URL using the
        <xmlatt>collation</xmlatt> attribute on <xmlelement>xsl:sort</xmlelement> elements or other
      contexts where <xmlatt>collation</xmlatt> is allowed. You then use the
        <xmlelement>xsl:sort</xmlelement> element
      normally:<codeblock>&lt;xsl:apply-templates select="word">
  &lt;xsl:sort <b>collation="'http://org.dita-community.i18n.zhCNawareCollator?lang=<varname>langCode</varname>'"</b>/>
&lt;/xsl:apply-templates></codeblock></p>
    <p>Where <varname>langCode</varname> is the language code for the language the collator should
      be configured for when sorting. For Simplified Chinese the language code should be "zh-CN".
      Depending on the Open Toolkit version you're using you should be able to use either the
        <codeph>getLowerCaseLang</codeph> named template or the
        <codeph>dita-ot:get-current-language()</codeph> function to get the language for the current
      context.</p>
    <p>To construct sort keys that take DITA-defined sort-as definitions into account, you can use
      the XSLT functions defined by the i18n plug-in to get primary and secondary sort keys from
      topics or other DITA elements and then use those sort keys in the
        <xmlelement>xsl:sort</xmlelement> element's <xmlatt>use</xmlatt> attribute. To use these
      functions declare the namespace "<codeph>http://org.dita-community/i18n</codeph>" in your XSLT
      module and import the <filepath>xsl/i18n-lib.xsl</filepath> module from the i18n plug-in into
      your XSLT module.</p>
    <p>The file <filepath>test/xsl/test-collator.xsl</filepath> in the i18n plug-in demonstrates how
      to use the collator and the i18n utility functions. If there's a function you need that isn't
      provided please submit an issue on GitHub against the org.dita-community.i18n project or
      implement the function and submit a pull request—if you need the function it's likely that
      others do too.</p>
    <p>You can use multiple <xmlelement>xsl:sort</xmlelement> elements to do sorting on primary and
      secondary (or even tertiary) keys. For example, if you are sorting a set of topicrefs you can
      use code like
      this:<codeblock>&lt;xsl:variable name="langCode" as="xs:string"
 select="dita-ot:get-current-language(.)" 
/>
&lt;xsl:variable name="collationUri" as="xs:string"
  select="concat('http://org.dita-community.i18n.zhCNawareCollator?lang=', $langCode)"
/>
&lt;xsl:apply-templates select="*[contains(@class, ' map/topicref ']">
  &lt;xsl:sort collation="{$collationUri}" 
     use="dci18n:getPrimarySortKeyForTopicref(.)"
  />
  &lt;xsl:sort collation="{$collationUri}" 
     use="dci18n:getBaseSortKeyForTopicref(.)"
  />
&lt;/xsl:apply-templates></codeblock></p>
    <p>The function <codeph>dci18n:getPrimarySortKeyForTopicref()</codeph> uses the collator's
      configured language to construct a primary sort key from the title of the topic referenced by
      the topicref (if it references a topic), taking into account any sort-as elements and applying
      locale-specific rules for constructing sort keys (e.g., for Simplified Chinese, converting the
      words in the base sort key into pinyin).</p>
    <p>The function <codeph>dci18n:getBaseSortKeyForTopicref()</codeph> just uses the title text of
      the referenced topic. </p>
    <p>By using two <xmlelement>xsl:sort</xmlelement> elements in this way, if two topics produce
      the same primary sort key but have different base keys they will sort together by primary key
      but then be sorted in order by base key.</p>
    <p>The i18n library recognizes both the DITA 1.3 <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element and
        <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> elements with a <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> value of "sort-as" as
      sort-as elements. If you have some other way of capturing sort-as values you can implement
      your own functions using the i18n functions a base or as examples.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
